Practical 10

1. Show that the Klein $V_{4}$ group can be decomposed into the direct product of two cyclic groups of the second order.

2. Are the groups $S_{3},$ $A_{4}$, and $S_{4}$ decomposable into a direct product of subgroups?

3. Prove that the additive groups $\mathbb{Z}$ and $\mathbb{Q}$ cannot be decomposed into a direct sum of subgroups, none of which is zero.

4. Prove that:

   4.1. The additive group of complex numbers can be decomposed into the direct sum of the additive groups of real and imaginary numbers.

   4.2. The multiplicative group of complex numbers can be decomposed into the direct product of the subgroups of positive real numbers and complex numbers with modulus one.

5. Prove that the quaternion group is indecomposable.

6. Prove that the group $\mathbb{R}^{*}$ is decomposable.

7. Prove that the center of a direct product is equal to the direct product of the centers of the factors.

8. Prove that the commutator (derived subgroup) of a direct product is equal to the direct product of the commutators of the factors.

9. Prove that an abelian group of order 385 can be decomposed into the direct sum of its cyclic subgroups of orders 5, 7, and 11.

10. Decompose the groups $\mathbb{Z}_{6}$, $\mathbb{Z}_{12}$, and $\mathbb{Z}_{60}$ into direct sums.

11. How many subgroups of order 2 and 6 does a non-cyclic abelian group of order 12 have?

12. How many subgroups of order 3 and 6 does a non-cyclic abelian group of order 18 have?

13. Describe, up to isomorphism, all abelian groups of order 200.

14. Find all subgroups of the group $\mathbb{Z}_{3}\oplus\mathbb{Z}_{3}$.